---
published: true
title: Warmup
layout: post
tags: [bash, debian, shell, linux]
---
# Intro

I decided to use this blog as a place were I share things I discover when working as a software engineer.

Starting with shell commands!

I am using Debian and Bash or Fish (you might want to ask which operator has higher precedence here).

## Line endings

Ever thought how to convert those `^M` characters in VIM that represent Windows line endings (CRLF) to Unix line endings (LF)?

You can do it with `tr` or `dos2unix`:

```
tr -d '\015' < $input > $output
```

or

```
dos2unix $input
```

If you need to convert all files in a directory use `find` with `exec` flag:

```
find $directory -type f -exec dos2unix {} \;
```

## Finding packages

Now how do I know what package has the dos2unix executable?

```
dpkg -S $executable
```

there is also another program which does the same:

```
dlocate $executable
```

and another:

~~~
apt-file update
apt-file search $executable
~~~

Notice that this produces lots of output if you give it just the name, try with full path instead.

~~~
whereis $executable
which $executable
apt-file search $full_executable_path
~~~

## Secure data erasure

You sometimes do not want others to recover your files, say for example, with passwords right?

~~~
wipe $file
wpie -r $directory
~~~

## Git history start rewrite

You work with Git, right? How do you rebase the initial commit then?

```
git rebase --interactive --root
```

## In-place file modification

You probably tried:

```
tr 'a' 'z' < $input > $input
```

somewhere in time and it did not work, leaving you with empty file.

Well you cannot read and write at the same time from and to the same file because it is being processed.

Think of it as changing the `for` loop index while in the loop.

But you probably just want to do the operation in place, and there is a way.

Ta da, da da dam: SPONGE!

```
tr 'a' 'z' < $input | sponge $input
```

# Outro

## Please, please, please

Please share the post if you liked it.

Thanks!


## Appendix

Packages:

`coreutils`, `dos2unix`, `findutils`, `dpkg`, `dlocate`, `apt-file`, `debianutils`, `wipe`, `git`, `moreutils`.

Credits:

* [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2613800/how-to-convert-dos-windows-newline-crlf-to-unix-newline-n-in-bash-script](VonC)
* [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/7068179/convert-line-endlings-for-whole-directory-tree-git](Andy)
* [http://askubuntu.com/questions/57572/how-to-delete-files-in-secure-manner](Takkat)
* [http://stackoverflow.com/questions/2246208/change-first-commit-of-project-with-git](ecdpalma)